today now we are going to start about
the individual parts of the eyeball so
initially let us concentrate on the
cornea so in this particular image you
can clearly see the anterior part of the
globe of the eye is the glowing part is
considered as the cornea so here this
particular cornea is the transparent
convex anterior portion or we can say
the outer layer of the eyeball so this
is the outer layer of the eyeball which
is known as the cornea which is
transparent in nature so this particular
cornea is covering the two main internal
structures which are generally called as
the iris and the pupil so here the
anterior portion of this particular
cornea forms the anterior 1/6 of the
outer layer and it's continuous with the
sclera the sclera which is generally
known as the the white part of the eye
so posterior lis this particular cornea
continuous which is X square so this is
known as the anterior part of the
eyeball which is generally considered as
cornea so we know that though the cornea
is transparent it does not appear
transparent that is it appears in
different colors that is such as blue
such as green brown gray black so these
are the different colors where cornea
exactly appears so you should not
mistaken that this is not the exact
color of the cornea so you can see
clearly I said this particular cornea is
called as the anterior portion of the
eyeball so immediately Benni to this
particular cornea you can see the like
iris okay so the mainly the color of
this particular iris gives the
appearance of a particular color to the
cornea so here
this Clara overlaps a cornea and its
periphery and appears in front as a
white portion of the eye so this is what
is the important point you need to
remember so what are the dimensions of
this particular cornea is important
point to be noted the main diameter of
the cornea is about that wall mm
horizontally and 11 mm vertically so the
horizontal diameter piece volumn
and the vertical diameter is 11
millimeters it's very important point to
be noted so even though I said this
particular cornea is a called as a that
transparent layer this particular
transparent layer is mainly made up of
the Y different layers is the important
point you need to be noted so what are
the five different layers the
superficial layer of the cornea is
considered as the layer of the
stratified epithelium the second layer
is known as the Bowman's membrane or it
is also called as the anterior elastic
lamina the third one is considered as
substantial proper and the fourth is
very important clinically which is known
as then this means layer or is also
sometimes called the Dismas membrane in
simple terminology that is regarded as
the posterior elastic lamina and the
last layer the final layer which is
towards this particular iris is known as
a the layer of endothelial cells so this
is what the file layers of the cornea
and finally let us discuss about what is
the refractory index is a very important
MZ key which can be asked so the main
refractory index of this particular
career is one point three seven six the
very important point needs to be noted
so this particular like cornea is very
sensitive to pain touch pressure as well
as cold because the center of this
particular cornea is more sensitive to
the pain is a important point to be
noted and it is very important to note
that the cornea is not
vascularized so these are all the
important points you should know about
the anterior part of this particular eye
which is a transparent membrane which is
considered as cornea
you